.TH ROCKETSMBD 8 "2026-06-10" "rocketsmbd" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
rocketsmbd \- io_uring SMB2/SMB3 file server (zero-copy, multichannel)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rocketsmbd
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-\-check\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rocketsmbd
is a from-scratch SMB2/3 file server built on Linux io_uring. Accept, receive,
send, and file I/O all flow through one io_uring per worker thread; file reads
are served zero-copy from page cache to socket via linked
.BR splice (2)
operations. It speaks SMB 2.0.2 through 3.1.1 with NTLMv2 authentication,
SMB2/3 signing, and SMB3 multichannel.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIpath\fR " (or " \-c ")"
Path to the TOML configuration file. Default: \fIrocketsmbd.toml\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-check
Validate the configuration and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-version " (or " \-V ")"
Print version and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is TOML, by convention \fI/etc/rocketsmbd.toml\fR.
.TP
.B listen
Bind address, e.g. \f"0.0.0.0:445\fR". Binding 445 needs CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE.
.TP
.B workers
Worker threads (one io_uring + SO_REUSEPORT listener each). 0 = one per core.
.TP
.B server_name
Advertised server name.
.TP
.B log_level
0 = warn, 1 = info, 2 = debug.
.TP
.B allow_guest
Allow unauthenticated guest sessions. Defaults true only when no users exist.
.TP
.B require_signing
Reject unsigned requests on authenticated sessions.
.TP
.B multichannel
Advertise SMB3 multichannel and accept session binding.
.TP
.B advertise_only
List of IPs to advertise for multichannel (e.g. a storage NIC). Empty = all
non-loopback interfaces.
.PP
Shares are \fB[[share]]\fR tables with \fBname\fR, \fBpath\fR, and optional
\fBread_only\fR. Users are \fB[[user]]\fR tables with \fBname\fR and either
\fBpassword\fR or a 32-hex-char \fBnt_hash\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
listen = "0.0.0.0:445"
workers = 0
multichannel = true

[[share]]
name = "data"
path = "/srv/data"

[[user]]
name = "alice"
password = "secret"
.fi
.PP
Mount from a client:
.PP
.nf
mount -t cifs //server/data /mnt -o username=alice,password=secret,vers=3.1.1
.fi
.SH SECURITY
Pre-1.0: no SMB3 encryption yet; trusted-LAN use only. Do not expose port 445
to untrusted networks. See SECURITY.md.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/rocketsmbd.toml
Default configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount.cifs (8)
.SH AUTHORS
https://github.com/glennswest/rocketsmbd
